# BenchmarkCNV
BenchmarkCNV.wdl is designed to evaluate the performance of Dragen CNV (Copy Number Variation) caller against GATK SV (Structural Variation) caller. 
The pipeline is composed of three main steps:

* Select Variants
  * The pipeline first selects variants from the 1000 Genomes GATK SV callset, which serves as the ground truth for the evaluation.

* Large Variant Evaluation
  * The pipeline then uses the [wittyer](https://github.com/Illumina/witty.er) tool to evaluate the CNV variants discovered by the Dragen CNV caller and Dragen SV caller. 
  Wittyer is a tool that is specifically designed for large variant evaluation, and it is capable of comparing CNV and SV calls. 
  The pipeline benchmarks the results of the Dragen CNV caller and Dragen SV caller against GATK SV results to provide a comprehensive evaluation of the performance.

* Format Output
  * The final step of the pipeline uses the [Wittyer4mat](https://github.com/broadinstitute/TAG/pull/1567) script to parse the output generated by Wittyer into a well-formatted dataframe. 
  This allows for easy interpretation and analysis of the evaluation results.

## IMPORTANT NOTE
* The provided JSON is a ready to use example JSON template of the BenchmarkCNV workflow. It's using 1000 genome as callset input and HG00513 as an example. 
It is the user’s responsibility to correctly set the reference and resource input variables. Please refer to [this terra
workspace](https://app.terra.bio/#workspaces/broadtagteam/tag1455_Dragen_CNV_Caller_Validaton) for Terra workspace setup.


